# 2.3.4 (2009-11-27)

## Changelog

###  New Features

 * [rev:84085] Allow different user groups to have different HtmlEditorConfigs
 * [rev:83631] Allow file size/extension limits to apply to the admin user as


###  API Change

 * [rev:91610] BasicAuth::requireLogin() no longer has an option to automatically log you in.  You can call logIn() on the object returned, instead. (from r91603)
 * [rev:91130] move SubscribeSumission.ss from cms module to newsletter module, cos it is only used by newsletter module.
 * [rev:91034] Added SapphireTest::logInWithPermission() (merged from r89209)
 * [rev:88176] Added no-arg option to increase_memory_limit_to() (from r80241)
 * [rev:84594] Template codes can no longer be used in emails except when using .ss files.
 * [rev:84157] Make Object::uninherited_static() have a separate execution path to Object::get_static(), for more reliable operation. The intention is that for any given static, you either use Object::get_static() or you use Object::uninherited_static() - not both. (from r84151, r84155, r84156)


###  Bugfixes

 * [rev:93483] fix for multiple EmailField validation on one form. Merged via r78565
 * [rev:91660] Made use of new BasicAuth::protect_entire_site() consistent. (from r91658)
 * [rev:91611] Don't enable site-wide protection by default (from r91609)
 * [rev:89612] Added rewriteHashlinks = 'php' option to SSViewer so that static publisher can handle internal hashlinks properly.
 * [rev:89611] Added rewriteHashlinks = 'php' option to SSViewer so that static publisher can handle internal hashlinks properly.
 * [rev:88281] Ensure ASSETS_PATH is respected
 * [rev:87869] Pass locale rather than language to spellchecker_languages
 * [rev:87867] Always choosing translatable default language in CMSMain->init() for TinyMCE spell checking. Always setting ->Locale in order to have it available for the spell checking (from r81716)
 * [rev:87458] #4579: Translatable's call to new LanguageDropdownField() broked (from r87456)
 * [rev:86573] fixed typo in pagecomment which meant commenter url was not saved. BUGFIX: updated protector to use new format
 * [rev:86325] Fixed Links to Moderate Comments from the CMS and front end. MINOR: removed complextable functions which no longer get called, moved logic to the PageComment Class
 * [rev:86202] was being passed to foreach without a check to see if it's an array or not.
 * [rev:85779] Fixed Member::sendInfo() assumptions that broke with an API change in r84594
 * [rev:85632] findByTagAndAttribute is unintentionally expanding any php  found in the href/src components its regex extracts. Changed double quotes to single quotes to fix this.
 * [rev:84957] Tied rollback action to edit, rather than publish, permission, since it only involves editing the draft site.
 * [rev:84380] Fixing the comment's author website url being converted to lowercase: now case is not affected.
 * [rev:84332] Added required javascript files (behaviour, prototype, prototype_improvements) to the Field() method of TreeDropdownField.php
 * [rev:84320] Added required javascript files (behaviour, prototype, prototype_improvements) to the Field() method of TreeSelectorField.php
 * [rev:83587] Object subclasses with a constructor that didn't already will now call parent to respect inheritance
 * [rev:83586] CMSMenuItem constructor now calls parent to respect inheritance
 * [rev:83579] Fixed FilesystemPublisher::__construct() not calling parent::__construct() and breaking DataObjectDecorator::load_extra_statics()
