---
title: 4.12.0 (unreleased)
---

# 4.12.0 (unreleased)

## Overview

- [Regression test and Security audit](#audit)
- [Features and enhancements](#features-and-enhancements)
  - [Samesite attribute on cookies](#cookies-samesite)
  - [Other features](#other-features)
- [Bugfixes](#bugfixes)

## Regression test and Security audit{#audit}

This release has been comprehensively regression tested and passed to a third party for a security-focused audit.

While it is still advised that you perform your own due diligence when upgrading your project, this work is performed to ensure a safe and secure upgrade with each recipe release.

## Features and enhancements {#features-and-enhancements}

### Samesite attribute on cookies {#cookies-samesite}

The `samesite` attribute is now set on all cookies. To avoid backward compatability issues, the `Lax` value has been set by default, but we recommend reviewing the requirements of your project and setting an appropriate value.

The default value can be set for all cookies (except for the session cookie) in yaml configuration like so:

```yml
SilverStripe\Control\Cookie:
  default_samesite: 'Strict'
```

Check out the [cookies documentation](/developer_guides/cookies_and_sessions/cookies#samesite-attribute) for more information.

The session cookie is handled separately. You can configure it like so:

```yml
SilverStripe\Control\Session:
  cookie_samesite: 'Strict'
```

Note that if you set the `samesite` attribute to `None`, the `secure` is automatically set to `true` as required by the specification.

For more information about the `samesite` attribute check out https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite

### Other new features {#other-features}

## Bugfixes {#bugfixes}

This release includes a number of bug fixes to improve a broad range of areas. Check the change logs for full details of these fixes split by module. Thank you to the community members that helped contribute these fixes as part of the release!

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
