# 4.2.0

## Overview {#overview}

 * Disable session-based stage setting in `Versioned` (see [#1578](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/issues/1578))
 * Deprecated `FunctionalTest::useDraftSite()`. You should use querystring args instead for setting stage.

## Upgrading {#upgrading}

### App folder name

The standard 'mysite' code naming convention has changed in 4.2. Although existing sites can continue
to use 'mysite/code` to store their base project code, the recommendation and new default is to
store code in `app/src`.

Additionally, we reinforce the recommendation to use psr-4 autoloading in your project to speed up
class loading.

In order to upgrade a site to use `app/src` folder:

 - Rename the folder `mysite` to `app` and `code` to `src`.
 - Update your `app/_config/mysite.yml` config to the below:

```yaml
---
Name: myproject
---
SilverStripe\Core\Manifest\ModuleManifest:
  project: app
```

 - add psr-4 for your root project files and namespace. An example `composer.json` below
   shows how this might look:

```json
{
    "autoload": {
        "psr-4": {
            "TractorCow\\MyWebsite\\": "app/src/"
        },
        "classmap": [
            "app/src/Page.php",
            "app/src/PageController.php"
        ]
    }
}
```

 - Ensure you flush your site with `?flush=all`
 
Note: In 5.0 the app folder will be fixed to `app` and cannot be soft-coded via `mysite.yml`

### Disable session-based stage setting

When viewing a versioned record (usually pages) in "draft" mode,
SilverStripe used to record this mode in the session for further requests.
This has the advantage of transparently working on XHR and API requests,
as well as authenticated users navigating through other views.

These subsequent requests no longer carried an explicit `stage` query parameter,
which meant the same URL might show draft or live content depending on your session state.
While most HTTP caching layers deal gracefully with this variation by disabling
any caching when a session cookie is present, there is a small chance
that draft content is exposed to unauthenticated users for the lifetime of the cache.

Due to this potential risk for information leakage,
we have decided to only rely on the `stage` query parameter.
If you are consistently using the built-in `SiteTree->Link()`
and `Controller->Link()` methods to get URLs, this change likely won't affect you. 

If you are manually concatenating URLs to SilverStripe controllers
rather than through their `Link()` methods (in custom PHP or JavaScript),
or have implemented your own `Link()` methods on controllers exposing
versioned objects, you'll need to check your business logic.

Alternatively, you can opt-out of this security feature via YAML configuration:

```yml
SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned:
  use_session: true
```

Check our [versioning docs](/developer_guides/model/versioning#controllers)
for more details.

### New Versioned API

The following methods have been added to [api:SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned] class:

 * `withVersionedMode()` Allows users to execute a closure which may internally modify
   the current stage, but will guarantee these changes are reverted safely on return.
   Helpful when temporarily performing a task in another stage or view mode.
 * `get_draft_site_secured()` / `set_draft_site_secured()` Enables the explicit toggle
   of draft site security. By setting this to false, you can expose a draft mode to
   unauthenticated users. Replaces `unsecuredDraftSite` session var.
 * `get_default_reading_mode()` / `set_default_reading_mode()` The default reading
  mode is now configurable. Any non-default reading mode must have querystring args
  to be visible. This will be the mode choosen for requests that do not have these args.
  Note that the default mode for CMS is now draft, but is live on the frontend.

A new class [api:SilverStripe\Versioned\ReadingMode] has also been added to assist with
conversion of the reading mode between:
 - Reading mode string
 - DataQuery parameters
 - Querystring parameters

### Link tracking

SiteTreeLinkTracking has been split and refactored into two extensions, and now
no longer applies exclusively to `HTMLContent` areas on `SiteTree` objects, but now
all `DataObject` classes.
 - `SiteTreeLinkTracking` -> Tracks links between any object and SiteTree objects,
   generated from [sitetree_link] shortcodes in html areas.
 - `FileLinkTracking` -> Tracks links between any object and File objects, generated
  from [image] and [file_link] shortcodes in html areas.

Note that the `ImageTracking` property has been deprecated in favour of `FileTracking`,
which includes and tracks non-image files as well.

By default `HasBrokenFile` and `HasBrokenLink` properties are still supported, but
only for `SiteTree` objects by default. Non-SiteTree objects will still have
both `FileTracking` and `LinkTracking` relations available for tracking
linked records.

In addition, `File::BackLinkTracking()` and `SiteTree::BackLinkTracking()` are now polymorphic,
and may now both contain non-SiteTree objects. Polymorphic many_many through relations are
currently experimentally supported.

User code which relies on SiteTree-only results for these properties will need to be updated
to consider other types.

Additionally, the `SiteTree_LinkTracking` and `SiteTree_ImageTracking` tables no longer exist,
and are replaced by the `SiteTreeLink` and `FileLink` many_many through joining classes instead.
Code which relies on raw SQL queries to these tables will need to be updated.

`SiteTreeFileExtension` is deprecated, and has it's functionality baked directly into `File` dataobject.

### New upgrader commands

Two new commands have been added to the SilverStripe upgrader tool: `environment` and `reorganise`.

`environment` allows you to convert your `_ss_environment.php` file to an equivalent `.env` file when migrating a SilverStripe 3 project to SilverStripe 4.

`reorganise` renames your `mysite` and `mysite/code` folders to `app` and `app/src`. It also warns you of any occurence of `mysite` in your codebase.

```
cd ~/my-project-root
upgrade-code environment --write
upgrade-code reorganise --write
```

### New GridField Action Menu

A new `GridField_ActionMenu` is included by default in GridFields configured with `GridFieldConfig_RecordEditor`
or `GridFieldConfig_RelationEditor`.
In addition to this `GridFieldDeleteAction` and `GridFieldEditButton` now implement `GridField_ActionMenuItem`,
this means that any GridField that uses a config of or based on `GridFieldConfig_RecordEditor` 
or `GridFieldConfig_RelationEditor` will have an action menu on each item row with
the 'Delete/Unlink' and 'Edit' actions moved into it.

If you wish to opt out of having this menu and the respective actions moved into it, you can remove the `GridField_ActionMenu`
component from the config that is passed into your GridField.

```php
// method 1: removing GridField_ActionMenu from a new GridField
$config = GridFieldConfig_RecordEditor::create();
$config->removeComponentsByType(GridField_ActionMenu);

$gridField = new GridField('Teams', 'Teams', $this->Teams(), $config);

// method 2: removing GridField_ActionMenu from an existing GridField
$gridField->getConfig()->removeComponentsByType(GridField_ActionMenu);
```
### Versioned cache segmentation

`SilverStripe\Core\Cache\CacheFactory` now maintains separate cache pools for each versioned stage. This prevents developers from caching draft data and then accidentally exposing it on the live stage without potentially required authorisation checks. Unless you rely on caching across stages, you don't need to change your own code for this change to take effect. Note that cache keys will be internally rewritten, causing any existing cache items to become invalid when this change is deployed.

```php
// Before:
$cache = Injector::inst()->get(CacheInterface::class . '.myapp');
Versioned::set_stage(Versioned::DRAFT);
$cache->set('my_key', 'Some draft content. Not for public viewing yet.');
Versioned::set_stage(Versioned::LIVE);
$cache->get('my_key'); // 'Some draft content. Not for public viewing yet'

// After:
$cache = Injector::inst()->get(CacheInterface::class . '.myapp');
Versioned::set_stage(Versioned::DRAFT);
$cache->set('my_key', 'Some draft content. Not for public viewing yet.');
Versioned::set_stage(Versioned::LIVE);
$cache->get('my_key'); // null
```
Data that is not content sensitive can be cached across stages by simply opting out of the segmented cache with the `disable-container` argument.

```yaml
SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector:
  Psr\SimpleCache\CacheInterface.myapp:
    factory: SilverStripe\Core\Cache\CacheFactory     
    constructor:
      namespace: "MyInsensitiveData"
      disable-container: true 
``` 

### HTTP Cache Header changes

#### Overview

In order to support developers in making safe choices around HTTP caching,
we're using a `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware` class to control if a response
should be considered public or private. This is an abstraction on the
`HTTPResponse->addHeader()` lowlevel API.

This change introduces smaller but necessary changes to HTTP caching headers
sent by SilverStripe. If you are relying on HTTP caching in your implementation,
or use modules such as [silverstripe/controllerpolicy](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-controllerpolicy),
please review the implications of these changes below. 

In short, these APIs make it easier to express your caching preferences
without running the risk of overriding essential core safety measures.
Most commonly, these APIs will prevent HTTP caching of draft content.

It will also prevent caching of content generated with an active session,
since the system can't tell whether session data was used to vary the output.
In this case, it's up to the developer to opt-in to caching,
after ensuring that certain execution paths are safe despite of using sessions.

The system behaviour does not guard against accidentally caching "private" content,
since there are too many variations under which output could be considered private
(e.g. a custom "approval" flag on a comment object). It is up to
the developer to ensure caching is used appropriately there.

By default, SilverStripe sends headers which signal to HTTP caches
that the response should be considered not cacheable.

See [Developer Guide: Performance > HTTP Cache Headers](/developer_guide/performance/http_cache_headers)
for details on the new API.

#### Disabling legacy cache headers

In order to forcibly disable all deprecated HTTP APIs you can set the below config:

```yaml
SilverStripe\Control\HTTP:
  ignoreDeprecatedCaching: true
```

This will ensure that any code paths that use the old API will not interefere with upgraded code
that interferes with the new behaviour.

#### Example Usage

##### Global opt-in for page content 

Enable caching for all page content (through `PageController`).

```diff
<?php

-use SilverStripe\Control\HTTP;
+use SilverStripe\Control\Middleware\HTTPCacheControlMiddleware;
use SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\ContentController;

class PageController extends ContentController
{
    public function init()
    {
-        HTTP::set_cache_age(60);
+        HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::singleton()
+           ->enableCache()
+           ->setMaxAge(60); // 1 minute
        
        parent::init();
    }
}
```

Note: SilverStripe will still override this preference when a session is active,
a [CSRF token](/developer_guides/forms/form_security) token is present,
or draft content has been requested.

##### Opt-out for a particular controller action

If a controller output relies on session data, cookies,
permission checks or other triggers for conditional output,
you can disable caching either on a controller level
(through `init()`) or for a particular action.

```diff
<?php

-use SilverStripe\Control\HTTP;
+use SilverStripe\Control\Middleware\HTTPCacheControlMiddleware;
use SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\ContentController;

class PageController extends ContentController
{
    public function myprivateaction($request)
    {
-        HTTP::set_cache_age(0);
+        HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::singleton()
+           ->disableCache();
        
        return $this->myPrivateResponse();
    }
}
```

Note: SilverStripe will still override this preference when a session is active,
a [CSRF token](/developer_guides/forms/form_security) token is present,
or draft content has been requested.

##### Global opt-in, ignoring session (advanced)

This can be helpful in situations where forms are embedded on the website.
SilverStripe will still override this preference when draft content has been requested.
CAUTION: This mode relies on a developer examining each execution path to ensure
that no session data is used to vary output. 

Use case: By default, forms include a [CSRF token](/developer_guides/forms/form_security)
which starts a session with a value that's unique to the visitor, which makes the output uncacheable.
But any subsequent requests by this visitor will also carry a session, leading to uncacheable output
for this visitor. This is the case even if the output does not contain any forms,
and does not vary for this particular visitor.

```diff
<?php

-use SilverStripe\Control\HTTP;
+use SilverStripe\Control\Middleware\HTTPCacheControlMiddleware;
use SilverStripe\CMS\Controllers\ContentController;

class PageController extends ContentController
{
    public function init()
    {
-        HTTP::set_cache_age(60);
+        HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::singleton()
+           ->enableCache($force=true) // DANGER ZONE
+           ->setMaxAge(60); // 1 minute

        parent::init();
    }
}
```

#### Detailed Cache-Control Changes

 * Added `Cache-Control: no-store` header to default responses,
   to prevent intermediary HTTP proxies (e.g. CDNs) from caching unless developers opt-in
 * Removed `Cache-Control: no-transform` header from default responses
 * Removed `Vary: Cookie` as an unreliable cache buster,
   rely on the existing `Cache-Control: no-store` defaults instead
 * Removed `Vary: Accept`, since it's very uncommon to vary content on
   the `Accept` headers submitted through the request,
   and it can significantly decrease the likelyhood of a cache hit.
   Note this is different from `Vary: Accept-Encoding`,
   which is important for compression (e.g. gzip), and usually added by
   other layers such as Apache's mod_gzip.
 * Removed `Vary: X-Requested-With` since it's only applicable when varying
   content based on the client context, mostly for returning different XHR responses
   as determined through `Director::is_ajax()`.
 * No longer sets `Last-Modified` date in HTTP response headers in `DataObject::__construct()`.
   Uses `ETag` calculation based on response body which is more accurate,
   and resilient against partial and object caching which can produce stale `Last-Modified` values. 
 * Deprecated `HTTP::add_cache_headers()`. Headers are added automatically by `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware` instead.
 * Deprecated `HTTP::set_cache_age()`. Use `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::singleton()->setMaxAge($age)`
 * Deprecated `HTTP.cache_ajax_requests`. Use `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::disableCache()` instead
 * Deprecated `HTTP.modification_date`. Handled by `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware`
 * Deprecated `HTTP.disable_http_cache`. Use `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware.defaultState` and `defaultForcingLevel` instead
 * Deprecated `HTTP::register_modification_date()`. Use `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::registerModificationDate()` instead
 * Deprecated `HTTP::register_modification_timestamp()`. Use `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::registerModificationDate()` instead
 * Deprecated `HTTP::register_etag()`. Use `HTTPCacheControlMiddleware::ETagMiddleware()` instead<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

## Change Log

### Security

 * 2018-04-23 [d42bd6e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/d42bd6ec3e1d15d48074de04bcabfd90ce0cbdc9) File.allowed_extensions can have values removed via YAML configuration (Robbie Averill) - See [ss-2018-014](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ss-2018-014)
 * 2018-04-23 [30e2d9c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/30e2d9c4df0e8d431bdf41446c7dc4d5e74ad507) Allow forced redirects to HTTPS for responses with basic authentication (Robbie Averill) - See [ss-2018-009](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ss-2018-009)
 * 2018-04-10 [0b7e665](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/0b7e665266c08fb0262af15096c0eaa2ce872a00) Enable oembed to be disabled serverside (Damian Mooyman) - See [ss-2018-003](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ss-2018-003)
 * 2018-04-10 [7c2886d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7c2886d87cd8dc01181b69f5252a7012137668f9) Update docs for oembed (Damian Mooyman) - See [ss-2018-003](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ss-2018-003)
 * 2018-04-09 [326b1ff](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/326b1ffa3976d8be30de3f8cfc0e7a55c14764aa) Implement stronger oembed white/blacklist (Damian Mooyman) - See [ss-2018-002](https://www.silverstripe.org/download/security-releases/ss-2018-002)

### API Changes

 * 2018-06-15 [53dded8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/53dded8cff678c6fee4163f91ceac12b6c960a77) Remove @internal from new 4.2 methods (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-12 [ec956a6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ec956a682dce2876322a3bc7c169a8eccec558ec) Moving tests to use transactions (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-04-16 [b1e8db1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/b1e8db1848c410abfd917d2b7104221d5004b66c) Implement rollbackRecursive() / rollbackSingle() (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-16 [c8b3593](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c8b3593090d7543df59c33f1323b9b188e663efd) Form::makeReadonly() returns self (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-06 [6c616f5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/6c616f5f7a4d2611e7a8f2cbb66360079c3edb6b) Implement polymorphic sitetree link tracking (#2123) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-22 [7351caf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7351caf48702558d20a93bd83fdc4c36d4be50c3) Allow non-DataExtension Extensions to decorate dataobject (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-21 [257ff69](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/257ff69e321e08af743de019ae338a291cb62615) Implement many_many through polymorphic (from only) (#7928) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-21 [32dcc4d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/32dcc4d34fa3490dfa4b1dd877448673176ca236) add withVersionedMode() to safely isolate reading mode modifications (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-20 [87afe84](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/87afe84e86d40ba4e9ebd0c37ea52e806650ba59) Customise type names and operation names (#143) (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-03-05 [3a1c813](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/3a1c813b288090853942296d52f12157ae83c946) Add getContentCSS() / setContentCSS() to allow per-config customisation of content_css (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-02-21 [ced2ba1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ced2ba1f64015c92dfeea6b473cf3f1999e449c6) Move CSV writing/reading to league/csv library (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-02-07 [860fa2a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/860fa2a05a8d55d97a9508858215502e94c24810) Add excludeAny() and tests for complicated excludes/filters (#7838) (Andrew Aitken-Fincham)

### Features and Enhancements

 * 2018-06-18 [95bcac7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/95bcac796a3bcb65e7d9fc55e0af0b9d17407938) Ensure test DB is flushed on either DDL or transaction-disabled tests (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-13 [a88257e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/a88257efac1a222607d413c070ab4bd7dc20df3d) Add version to HTTPRequest and create raw string representation (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-05-21 [865ebb3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/865ebb3398a692d9f39b4f64ff86054ccc291177) Improve upgrading experience. (#8025) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-05-20 [1d34d19](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/1d34d198f8ed661a987c8a10ee24c568e4528e39) Make FormAlert injectable (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-05-17 [e3237f9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/e3237f9638d72d49e1e192738e00eacac2308c69) Add revert mutation and refactor injector transformations (#2158) (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-05-17 [8ffa9dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8ffa9dda6aa53da4f701cf61b32c64b3318053aa) Make Preview component injectable (#505) (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-05-11 [1a57c7c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/1a57c7c1d0623fdc1b5a2ba2428306dfaf618bb0) Add getJoinTable to MMTL (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-05-02 [660e8bd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/660e8bde0e4b80ef770672436ae1c05262c61665) static caching of schema types, as well as dynamic endpoint (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-01 [aae318e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/aae318efd7a87b6ebcd57ab0d251095721651400) Register fieldHolder HOCs with injector (Dylan Wagstaff)
 * 2018-04-27 [e0b4d50](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/e0b4d506a1eea6daa8b66f037f2a140b8f76eb1a) Add Loading indicator component, implement into FormBuilderLoader (#490) (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-26 [0494be7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/0494be71d8f35c7c45e76e4b0110e6a8f948769a) Ensure that popover has correct container assigned (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-23 [1b24bf6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/1b24bf635949fac871ba6180b83986505c0e01db) Consolidate type / operation name generation (#151) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-23 [f50438e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/f50438e448209372f1f19c4d0c566182758c4a35) Ensure that default caches are segmented based on versioned state (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-19 [7c3980a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/7c3980a1c8dd10f24aabddcc770c102d13a32089) Refactor for more consistent use of union and inheritance types (#150) (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-04-11 [4ddee82](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/4ddee82ccd989963581d7bd8168f7d0899571096) Allow Preview class names to be overridden, and add i18n to messages (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-11 [c4f8af5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/c4f8af543cd362dfc54d477cac956f7418747e50) Add AbsoluteLink to history viewer page GraphQL query (#2142) (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-10 [0fa15f4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/0fa15f45e8c19f0c2c560597bdff1a61d93c6660) Ensure invalid stage values are throws as exceptions (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-09 [19e45a9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/19e45a9b966490be55b79c2667e2e18c16c3e0e6) Open modal default upload folder (#763) (Maxime Rainville)
 * 2018-04-04 [2c266c2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/2c266c220918c93fd45ad7ecb23d153bb529821e) Allow cleanupVersionedOrphans to be disabled (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-03 [47bcac9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/47bcac930df8bde71ffeb9144ac07d429ea9ee87) Add config var to skip confirm logout (#7977) (Andrew Aitken-Fincham)
 * 2018-04-02 [14af3b8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/14af3b851906c04211f1a72de27e0a939e1b3656) Add --inverted modifier for Badge component with pattern library examples (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-03-21 [d88415b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/d88415b57d3042935eb4e08f46e51a6b0d9b802b) Decorate TestSession with stage params (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-21 [26402f3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/26402f3bb52b2effa4218ada4b06ce9199216190) Enable request handlers to be extended (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-21 [9a6d18a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/9a6d18a8e456ca45d050d6b5306f4aa2a9e66ad1) Set default reading mode in admin (disables stage=Stage rewrite links) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-14 [f51ea4d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/f51ea4d4209958b5dd0809eb8f96351cbd5c713f) use scss variable than hard-coded color (#460) (Chris Joe)
 * 2018-03-12 [8294ab3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8294ab3cea88ec44f7aebdd658f1b2dbecbf3686) Allow badge-pill class to be modified in Badge component (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-03-12 [79db975](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/79db975a190c0178699164d63d1fd92bbd6cf9f0) add status badge to uploadfield item (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-12 [c92e5fe](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/c92e5fef0e422b54bff9fcf453b7346a2a1e0186) Ensure that publishSingle() updates local version (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [5db03d0](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/5db03d06fb88face772af77c93a21978d25ab2c4) Add isLiveVersion and isLatestDraftVersion to Versioned and GraphQL DataObject scaffolding (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-03-05 [1a82f03](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/1a82f0364ad33e18145d4f7e7729c7c0fdce4413) Add page GraphQL query HOC for history viewer component (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-03-05 [083308f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/083308fa699dcc8298b3a80ee60b0d1ff63ed034) Update table border colour to lighter grey (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-02-28 [4d424dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/4d424dd3407542641300f6064db0952ddc9acb48) get_by_id: alternate signature to allow MyDataObject::get_by_id($id) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-02-28 [5735bee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/5735beeb90f97127ae7cb42cecd031b8f168cdf3) Upgrade to Bootstrap 4.0.0-stable and change to reactstrap 5.0.0-beta (#2101) (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-02-28 [62eb29e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/62eb29e5c461af2279bb007c2d18759945124c76) Upgrade to Bootstrap 4.0.0-stable and change to reactstrap 5.0.0-beta (#88) (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-02-27 [f181ba3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/f181ba32f750ae2b6bf33f87c632fd3f4419ad93) Upgrade to Bootstrap 4.0.0-stable and change to reactstrap 5.0.0-beta (#737) (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-02-27 [8094c26](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8094c2673049c359fd8c061b58191b0886b7a391) Decouple preview from campaign admin (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-02-27 [5825958](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/5825958eafe63e6cf1ab88d7940ae1afe7865499) Upgrade to Bootstrap 4.0.0-stable and change to reactstrap 5.0.0-beta (#441) (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-02-27 [9474deb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/9474debfd256e3d0401cc8a0a4080f2b09bdf795) Add bulk insert feature for UploadField (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-26 [85dae1b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/85dae1bbde06e01c8bb19b38eb7e4a3d750f3610) Add warning when unpublishing owned files (#739) (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-02-26 [c4e705a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/c4e705a7fe117e4d6042c435ea368a2db48ed866) removed max width for content in intro screen (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-25 [1202807](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/12028073f48273179ea12adbbaf84f3db25c0fc7) Add warning for unpublishing owned records #444 (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-02-25 [fe9f729](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/fe9f72950534e669676ca50d9ad781c00aa5148c) Add warning when unpublishing owned records (#122) (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-02-17 [a214368](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/a2143680e8ae819d3e9404aba636eb6cb168c319) Add record count to dev/build output. (Sam Minnee)
 * 2018-02-15 [de0b76d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/de0b76dff6f4519cbe788c6e778b60e589f50b02) Fall back to SSViewer::get_themes when using themeResourceLoaders (Andrew Aitken-Fincham)
 * 2018-02-12 [00ff3ba](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/00ff3ba4b22df024a8fe98c47fb76a70739498fd) Make dropdownFieldThreshold configurable on DBForeignKey (#7789) (Andrew Aitken-Fincham)
 * 2018-02-09 [0151449](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/01514490fe4ef1ea99d4e528e752afa3df0c3575) remove File extension for backlink tracking in favour of UsedOnTable form field (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-08 [5f0a7cc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/5f0a7ccce69a6a7d9c354709654a463405c1ff0d) add a Usage tab showing owners of files (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-08 [c370e3c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/c370e3cfdf3171f3b7f2042d0ded5af3619eb5f2) Add a used-on table component for recorded ownerships (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-07 [dd82820](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/dd8282024232eb849693e68320e0f0b6bb02bab5) Allow GridFieldConfig::addComponents to accept an array (#7844) (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-02-07 [b084fe8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/b084fe817779b7abd74583c5ddb93f6f7a53d48d) Convert page history notice to use Bootstrap 4 info alert (Robbie Averill)
 * 2017-11-30 [9103816](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/9103816333e790a9b7cd84994e00e0941e34de39) Add php 7.2 support (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2017-09-26 [2c121e8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/2c121e8a07297baa89c0bedad086b1a62de2ba0a) approach (Daniel Hensby)

### Bugfixes

 * 2018-07-20 [78adff9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-errorpage/commit/78adff9a99c8778953f891e24f5f818335cea359) Build Static error page from live URL (Maxime Rainville)
 * 2018-07-18 [74b655d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/74b655d3fcb28db877d839c75f2f3f98b41448cd) tests on unset session data (Ingo Schommer)
 * 2018-07-18 [76ac846](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/76ac8465de768ab08c904e0e8c6075a9f4ceb56b) Lazy session state (fixes #8267) (Ingo Schommer)
 * 2018-07-14 [e37b3b9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/e37b3b95f4e02eaa8bccd8acc30cdc001d7239c5) updateValidatePassword calls need to be masked from backtraces (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-07-05 [cebed77](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/cebed776ab93e8adfbb437dc0b1448ced9f71215) If theres a max-age set remove no-cache and no-store (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-07-05 [2b1c55b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/2b1c55bc4e57d43490973452c8cc773a1a24c8ee) Allow setNoCache(false) to remove no-cache directive (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-07-05 [842b39e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/842b39e9884aefb91866cbcb4943f6aeae586d8b) Add must-revalidate to default state so its common on all our core states (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-07-05 [997730a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/997730aa7f507289da843974a386d0340842c14a) Allow cache control changes to affect default state (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-07-04 [bde3121](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/bde3121a33c893eca3bdf2ffff349d1bf15a3e06) Remove X-Requested-With from default Vary header (Sam Minnee)
 * 2018-06-26 [6e1c7c2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6e1c7c2781fe8c30806f628038471faba072bb51) remove personal information from password reset confirmation screen (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-06-21 [793aafa](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/793aafae917aa190e711ae5c7a18ed59c2812634) Transaction depth should error if not implemented by child classes (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-06-18 [c77042a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c77042aa8b5ba70f4c9dc6924d2ccccf3d5588a5) linting. (Maxime Rainville)
 * 2018-06-18 [b78a89a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/b78a89a76cd1c4596a159b8a5043517407de89bc) Default cache state should be `no-cache` (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-06-18 [225e61d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/225e61dc67f5ab550d41c42fa8c80b50b71db5b1) FIx manual resetDBSchema() calls breaking the database (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-18 [11e0a3d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/11e0a3de43d7e05b7df63d52b0238e58baff3c2a) Ensure that build includes extra classes (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-15 [3fa2c05](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/3fa2c056d71a3286ce83017d7cafc180cee076c2) Don't reload form session data using FormField::setSubmittedValue (#8056) (Maxime Rainville)
 * 2018-06-15 [74ef975](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/74ef975459a7f4779c2f4a91c9e277be0ffd81e0) mark legacy migration test as skipped temporarily (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-15 [e70e46e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/e70e46e21628e17f56f542e910379cc2713dfe8c) Fix missing .graphql file category (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-15 [8f7893f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/8f7893fe9af856a712952a8e992a79a24fade84b) Fix unit tests for 4.2 core regressions (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-14 [d52c4dd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d52c4dd602929db5b37cf33261b41c0d3d2098bc) Make regression in #7839 safer (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-14 [acc8d48](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/acc8d48b11890ec8a4f725e8e330ea56950a43d6) SapphireTest can load relative fixtures in subfolders, switch "needs db" priority check order (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-06-13 [9274692](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/92746924159e9667429d0fa5ee8c7d5ed34ea514) core tests (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-13 [59ba208](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/59ba208df010e6a26afeed8c650a5b705ea9361b) HTTPTest (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-13 [6f32762](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6f32762268941ba42ad2a129c67172e51cb1a4d3) unit tests (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-13 [aa1ba0e](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/aa1ba0ef90109fe084a8d736ed4ca08b32a4f40b) inverted condition (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-06-12 [befd81d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/befd81d0c238125b8b82dc8af69b58a1e639a6c4) Bug with forms being cached (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-06-12 [7c87591](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/7c875918c7bc48d615b24bc959f659afbad7883b) make sure we create ETags from the body, not the request (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-06-10 [d842225](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d842225df6df2eef1dd6ebd592120ffa5b344c11) Codesniffer style violations with comments (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-06-09 [4e6f45c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/4e6f45c2ea4cb3d2349a97a231edaa023f2af219) updateCMSFields example (Juan Molina)
 * 2018-06-06 [31ad3cd](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/31ad3cdaab9623230ce6bdad4e53f6a9a6c9baba) Allow buttons to opt out of display (#8113) (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-06-05 [bf07ba3](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/bf07ba30f4b11e1ddc26be50b0366d281bcd4967) Make error messages available to extensions (Jonathon Menz)
 * 2018-06-01 [a9e2af6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer/commit/a9e2af6863c2b32cddf417e43a228a743b3fade7) Remove incorrect classmap for Page and PageController (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-05-31 [4b3e76a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/4b3e76a976a11703f2d269d225874269ac2e37a3) missing braces (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-30 [d1af098](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/d1af098796dd647023adbde53d5752f14744fd9c) linting (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-16 [396ac65](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/396ac65106ce1c98e24a43fc11ded2fa54af9455) es per flameohr (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-15 [11c85c6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/11c85c63ee8792e443511f2f6582a586bf30ab60) Infinite render loop due to unchecked setState, incorrect binding of handleDrop() (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-10 [e22d1ec](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/e22d1ec1769e0673f6e7e076c20db506c08a69ec) behat test (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-10 [1993454](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/19934542d901339625c5b2da5a82d94a4ccbae17) broken delete close editor (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-05-10 [553ab92](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/553ab92b85df7fc679294adb32b58aad47c85340) checkbox select behat step (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-04-30 [abb1011](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/abb10117a5ea9fa9b8b6322da5ae8f9288d68a38) Expose Badge in injector registrations (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-30 [1d3e838](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/1d3e83838d22744ed51e50469d38c2a0559e893c) phpdoc for relation method (namespace) (JorisDebonnet)
 * 2018-04-20 [3f5c3ec](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/3f5c3ec9a2be7788cf4f204dff859977860a7104) Fix graphql regressions (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-19 [9727052](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/97270527aba45cdf598179fd985dfa112bdb4a1c) Ensure that nested rollbacks don't reset root version (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-18 [4585b0b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/4585b0b3828e3574f62aed71e07505a42cbd6893) a broken link to the versioning page. (Maxime Rainville)
 * 2018-04-18 [a71b821](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/a71b8219ba22939adfffccd1cb437b2f47910104) behat test (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-17 [57b006c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/57b006cf2eafdfe2427a914ff4a337327c0550c3) Re-implement flexbox classes for preview window (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-16 [0d40b54](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/0d40b54537664a09dd232ba5fb44cb0cf24f7c82) FIx rollback button from not working (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-16 [02d7989](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/02d79897edff9f6a17a2657d82b4347bf2d6821d) Ensure FormBuilder loading indicator has a minimum height of the image (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-14 [dfa0915](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/dfa0915e858aec6d643c188aab2df000ba4f1e11) Make 'id' a required prop (Raissa North)
 * 2018-04-12 [d21e03d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/d21e03d4ed6d8c1c2f60caec183c9301a493afd6) branch alias (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-11 [51173a7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-siteconfig/commit/51173a727c016fcfc3d528577bf747324a133ba9) Fixture the 'app' dir instead of mysite in unit tests (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-11 [5da708d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/5da708d223723f91ffe47672846a3967c52a5326) Fixture the 'app' dir instead of mysite in unit tests (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-04-11 [1041b65](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/1041b6542ee8ad09714d79b9b6dbdd676735f06e) Add loading indicator for FormBuilderLoader (#481) (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-04-10 [80e0f4d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/80e0f4db26e93241ee4a95bfde1c823abe3a5202) File modified indicator missing and draft indicator incorrect style (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-04-09 [79e4f9c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/79e4f9cbed4ae230d322ed0fbe1f25f11bed856f) Don't add redundant href="#" to tabs (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-09 [f569785](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/f56978577b96c525796e3577a9a2eecef32e0a6d) gridfield style issues with negative margins (#474) (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-04-06 [be8287f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/be8287fef87244f98b0cbdfd89933bd1ec6754f6) Prevent failover / extensions interfering with composite field properties (#7988) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-05 [e15a5af](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/e15a5afed389a8081d66be96b3511dc64a6721c8) Fix gridfield being cut off on sides (Luke Edwards)
 * 2018-04-04 [85f4e65](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/85f4e65f8f5ca4eb509837473cbca60f974176d6) Ensure extra fields have correct casting (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-04-04 [b127422](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/b1274224d9aeea7d9e14e55d9aaf52aa9f17f26d) linting (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-04-04 [50ad0ad](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/50ad0ad15b548d0f23aa41d5bc29972ed9ebeeb8) Fix double popup for unpublish and incorrect confirm (#758) (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-29 [ccbbcd4](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ccbbcd45a223ffaba4ab33a4fce0375952c20c1d) Fixed bug in config merging priorities so that config values set by extensions are now least important instead of most important (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-03-28 [878dc1f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/878dc1f86dadbaf501298511177517360ded980e) Change inverse polymorphic inference to silent-empty instead of explicit error (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-27 [484e0a7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/484e0a7f90cb00e77ca32f30554471a8a3dc4461) Ensure polymorphic ownership works (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-27 [9cb974c](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/9cb974c61925fe3bb1283c179a421e3e97ccdd4b) several mistakes in example code (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-03-27 [ec37e67](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/ec37e6796068f725366310192c63949c1cf366a7) Don't crash on polymorphic ownership (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-27 [e35971b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-assets/commit/e35971b32f92452398e092c459ffbd71b329c83c) revert to live (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-22 [436d473](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/436d4734d056c5c43a2a08e3bc9a23fb793926e1) Fix regression in canViewVersioned (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-21 [ba94e02](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/ba94e020e7deadd5deb9b4c6744f72bec37453b3) FunctionalTest not setting persistent versioned mode (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-20 [e277f19](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/e277f198d6aba0a9929ba79f5bfb198495d59c6e) merge regressions (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-15 [8568259](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/8568259061e5bb5f7523b82521355f7e1802e812) id for scaffolded objects (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-15 [b2e2a6b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/b2e2a6b5133d526c8ac9e54beec264118b2b56a5) bugs with execution (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-15 [61ce477](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/61ce4771f91367cbb4b8a1bf61e2af51964714df) ing HTMLEditorField API documentation (3Dgoo)
 * 2018-03-14 [23af7ea](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/23af7ea302a654ec21114fef8ccc4eb0eb09b355) Ensure consistent strict equality checks in version numbers (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-03-14 [97f22cb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/97f22cbaa5d683cca2f65370a9b827314317436d) ing FormAction API documentation (3Dgoo)
 * 2018-03-13 [b06bcc2](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/b06bcc24fded9e4718b4c8b182df5d3ed7eb1047) Fix regressions from testing cms unit tests (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-13 [e3e5edb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/e3e5edbf4856cbc2eb71a89b600a8542aeba5b34) "container" logic for FormBuilder and PopoverField, improves accessibility (#459) (Chris Joe)
 * 2018-03-11 [6f18e35](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/6f18e3596fa20720e523f9b2e670e1d5a418d920) sorting issue with versioned test (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-09 [9bed12b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/9bed12b8b696ce849e9eaff72a9ff14f8d9688af) Fix issue in latest_version (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [2e43291](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/2e432910fb0d161919474491e3d837641a4bce32) Fix archive date erroring if stage omitted (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [3e698c1](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/3e698c1bd0690027bd6cd0082a51b3c1d79974e1) remaining tests (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [be0b274](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/be0b2743917a1d064acde3989b3ac89a3a2ae727) testDeleteNestedOwnedWithoutRepublishingOwner (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [0be2a9d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/0be2a9dae588ecee332f9c183ae8bc8a92e5b53b) Fix WasDraft not being written (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [35cff90](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/35cff907607cc02def1f53e9a238b99d39ba471b) missing date for deleted _Versioned rows (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [3454600](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/3454600ea499741591324bf072876f982d8ae62c) archive / unpublish / delete creating deleted row (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-08 [e839d10](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/e839d100bd02d7c12c9529a517bbea2a386d802e) responsive modals (#744) (Chris Joe)
 * 2018-03-08 [38fbb92](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/38fbb92decdc4fbbe4c55e6647c68e852ae4a2ac) responsive modals (#457) (Chris Joe)
 * 2018-03-07 [ff78a3b](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/ff78a3bffc30a6fbc5ee2684718188e817eab506) up testDeleteOwnedWithoutRepublishingOwner (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-07 [640c8f7](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/640c8f7b3f56aa958ae462f4195bdd7121c37e97) postgres issue (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-06 [4f8a10d](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/4f8a10dd3132f5b2126ee8f888ab504c8aaefd22) invalid joins (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-06 [75168cf](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/75168cf2fa0fcf1ffc649e67b8ee3c87a675b3ed) multi-select shouldn't show insert button on form (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-06 [67fa8e9](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/67fa8e923ac4a3c5ef457597402c96c21dcd65b1) aligns Form actions container with the rest of the "bottom bars" (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-06 [36b6b30](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/36b6b3025119875110ffb4719591026f78cd123f) up progress indicators (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-03-05 [c209aff](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/c209afff96343899c38cc07ba788f9c0deb7fa93) Consolidate queued and read files for Gallery (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-01 [49a3970](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/49a3970c8722236bf51c0bded8c20d32b2fc4d9a) Resolve Published version field to Versioned_Version::Published() correctly (#125) (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-03-01 [6523d7a](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6523d7a6eb3905d5e3cf24120d33232e1eb5d789) ing HTMLEditorField API documentation (3Dgoo)
 * 2018-03-01 [c96b6dc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/commit/c96b6dceecfa1846990cd14b8cf6250a7879ca02) aesthetic annoyance where deselect+select code will make the bulk actions animate unnecessarily (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-03-01 [222eec8](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-versioned/commit/222eec81944ebcd2e3a7ad302f8ef8ff65f5e344) Add missing published state filter (Robbie Averill)
 * 2018-02-27 [c755f77](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/c755f77288bcbd5e6777f94d8499264446b456f0) indentation (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-02-27 [6274ccc](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/commit/6274ccce2ee3d66fb361a6335295d3a3eb2dbfe9) behat failure (Aaron Carlino)
 * 2018-02-27 [7677c68](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/7677c68b6b354910c1964f833a0df765daa4e346) Remove max-width from form-fields and items (#446) (Chris Joe)
 * 2018-02-27 [efe5c0f](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/efe5c0f3d251286b27c73ededc68305230c10184) fileSchema abolishing actions from previous props (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-21 [0647dee](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/0647dee8f0e09a23046c1a556e6acb7f6185bf08) travis (Daniel Hensby)
 * 2018-02-14 [d019f88](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/d019f8875aa1e7f42035529ee6de450a20bd1bec) php field to fallback to the form's record and added logic to handle no record available (or not saved) (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-13 [42fd4d6](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/commit/42fd4d6218102042d26607c968c2a773ea093751) Fix display logic for password fields (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-02-12 [6570599](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/6570599aa931224e65797d13b74714c44180a9e4) Fix incorrect display logic on password field (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-02-07 [b5f68eb](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-cms/commit/b5f68ebed2e7dda145a5eff55b67402f03d6f88f) warning appearing when button is disabled for rollback (Christopher Joe)
 * 2018-02-07 [1983200](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/19832000a53dc57cbd2029502d9064816e0508b1) Fix installer checking wrong location for files (Damian Mooyman)
 * 2018-02-02 [1d17f40](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-graphql/commit/1d17f40f4a587598fb01351df7cd181efb7b05a3) travis builds (Christopher Joe)
 * 2017-12-01 [74a3ba5](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/commit/74a3ba54ae3f02158ba81622bd9933ae3e98c665) count size of $relations (Daniel Hensby)
