# 4.5.0 (Unreleased)

## Overview {#overview}

 * [Installer UI has been removed](#installer-ui) and offered as a separate module.
 * [Generic login form styling](#login-forms)
 * Removed `use_gzip` option on `HtmlEditorField` which used to compress the rich text editor dependency.
   No longer required since compression is performed as part of the CMS build automatically.
   See (#832)(https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/issues/832)

## Installer UI has been removed

Until now, core releases of SilverStripe would put drop an `install.php` file in the 
public root that, when accessed with a browser, would offer an installation
UI prompting the user for all the necessary configuration of your project 
and environment, and validating it before performing the installation.

While this may be an important part of the onboarding experience for newcomers
to SilverStripe, it is an unnecessary artefact and potential security risk
for the vast majority of developers who install SilverStripe with composer
and their own environment files.

The installer UI will continue to live on under the name "installer-wizard" in a
[separate package](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer-wizard), which
can be added incrementally to core recipe installation, using `composer require silverstripe/installer-wizard`.
It is no longer a commercially supported module.

## Generic login form styling {#login-forms}

Login forms in SilverStripe are traditionally embedded in your page template.
This often requires style adjustments in your website, for example to cover variations
such as error messages and validation feedback. It also complicates
more advanced login flows such as multi-factor authentication.

Starting with this release, new installations include the
[silverstripe/login-forms](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-login-forms)
module. It provides generic styles which look great without any adjustments.
You can choose to add your own logo, or customise the templates.
The URLs to login functionality have not changed (e.g. `Security/login`).

Existing SilverStripe websites upgrading to this release can opt in to using
login forms via composer:

```
composer require silverstripe/login-forms
```

Note that any customisations you might have in `Page.ss` or `Layout/Security.ss`
no longer apply when this module is installed. If you have customised the login process
by adding form fields, or through custom handlers such as SAML or LDAP,
you'll need to review those before starting to use the module.


## New PasswordExpirationMiddleware now proactively invalidates members with expired passwords

A new PasswordExpirationMiddleware has been implemented.
It checks passwords of authenticated users for expiration and either enforces a redirection
to a change password form, or resets the user for a request being processed (sets current user to null).

This is considered to be a security enhancement, but potentially might interfere with some custom logic
around password expiration if you have it implemented.

Ideally you should test your setup when upgrading if you use the password expiration functionality.

If you'd like to deactivate the middleware, you can unregister it in your application config like this:

```yml
---
Name: disable-passwordExpirationMiddleware
After:
  - '#coresecurity'
---
SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector:
  SilverStripe\Control\Director:
    properties:
      Middlewares:
        PasswordExpirationMiddleware: null
```

## Deprecation

 * `PasswordValidator` methods `minLength`, `characterStrength`, and `checkHistoricalPasswords` are now deprecated from
  4.5.0 onwards (previously 5.0).
