# 4.6.0 (Unreleased)

## Overview {#overview}

 * [MySQL tables are auto-converted from MyISAM to InnoDB](#myisam)
 * [Editing files directly in the insert-media modal](#in-modal-editing)
 * [MIME Type validation now a core module](#mime-validator)
 * [Solr no longer indexes draft/restricted content](#solr-updates)

## MySQL tables are auto-converted from MyISAM to InnoDB {#myisam}

Beginning with [4.4.0](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/changelogs/4.4.0/),
our minimum requirement for MySQL is 5.6 (since MySQL 5.5 end of life reached in
December 2018). Starting with MySQL 5.6, [InnoDB](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-introduction.html)
is the new default storage engine, replacing the older [MyISAM](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/myisam-storage-engine.html)
engine.

Silverstripe CMS already creates InnoDB tables by default, mainly in order to
benefit from their better support for database transactions. Before MySQL 5.6,
InnoDB didn't have a `FULLTEXT` search index, requiring us to enforce the MyISAM
engine when devs opted into this index type in their particular setup. There are
a few ways in which this opt-in can happen:

 * Adding the [FulltextSearchable](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/blob/4/src/ORM/Search/FulltextSearchable.php)
   extension to a DataObject, as described in our [search docs](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/developer_guides/search/fulltextsearch/)
 * Defining `'type' => 'fulltext'` in `DataObject::$db` column definitions
 * Implementing [DBIndexable](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/blob/4/src/ORM/FieldType/DBIndexable.php)
   on a custom `DBField` subclass.
 * Setting `'ENGINE=MyISAM'` in `DataObject::$create_table_options`

This search index is not required to enable simple text search in the "Pages"
section of the CMS, or any ModelAdmin implementations. We generally recommend
choosing a more powerful [search addon](https://addons.silverstripe.org/add-ons?search=fulltext&type=&sort=downloads)
(e.g. based on Solr or ElasticSearch) for website frontend search use cases.

As of 4.6.0, a `dev/build` will automatically switch MyISAM tables to InnoDB,
which automatically recreates any indexes required. If you have large indexes,
this can extend the duration of this task. As usual, back up your database
before upgrading, and test upgrades on non-production systems first. Our tests
indicate that indexes with thousands of records and screen pages worth of
content (15MB index size) are converted in a few seconds.

In order to opt out of this change, you can set the engine explicitly for your
DataObject implementations:

```php
use SilverStripe\ORM\Connect\MySQLSchemaManager;
use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;

class MyDataObject extends DataObject
{
    private static $create_table_options = [
            MySQLSchemaManager::ID => 'ENGINE=MyISAM'
    ];
}
```

## Editing files directly in the Insert Media modal {#in-modal-editing}

Authors can now directly edit file details when selecting a file in an
`UploadField` or when inserting media in a `HTMLEditorField`. The "image
placement" and "file link" forms that show when inserting an image or a link in
an `HTMLEditorField` have been simplified.

If you have customised the fields in the asset administration UI or Insert Media
modal, you will need to do some regression testing when upgrading, and will
likely need to make some minor adjustments to your code.

Implementing the new Edit Details UI required filtering the fields generated in
`File::getCMSFields()` into two `Form`s. The implementation in 4.6.0 does not
expose a clear API to custom fields for differentiating between the `Form`s, and
by default any fields added via an extension will appear in both views. For the
time being, a simple way to resolve this is to check for the presence of the
`Editor.Details.Title` field and add your field based on this. See the community
module [jonom/focuspoint](https://github.com/jonom/silverstripe-focuspoint/pull/78/files#diff-cc697eb8345aa25a5f88c89d1a87ff6aR27-R34)
for an example implementation, and ensure you update this module during your
upgrade to 4.6.0 if you have it installed.

We intend to improve this pattern in a future release of Silverstripe CMS.

## MIME Type validation now a core module {#mime-validator}

`silverstripe/mimevalidator` is now a core module and will ship by default on
new projects. Projects referencing `silverstripe/recipe-core` will automatically
install `silverstripe/mimevalidator` when they upgrade to 4.6.0.

Read [Allowed file types](Developer_Guides/Files/Allowed_file_types) in the
Silverstripe CMS doc for all the details.

## Solr no longer indexes draft/restricted content {#solr-updates}

At the time of this release a new version of the popular [silverstripe/fulltextsearch module](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-fulltextsearch) is also available, introducing more secure defaults. Most notably, draft and restricted content will no longer be indexed by default, due to a `canView()` check being performed against an anonymous user prior to (re)indexing. Restricted content means that it has a permission level of either 'Logged-in users' or 'Only these groups'.

If your project uses this module, after upgrading your website, ensure that you run the `Solr_Reindex` task on your production environment to remove previously indexed content that should no longer be there.

If your website requires draft or restricted content to be indexed, you can opt-out of the new secure defaults on a per-model basis.

This is a great opportunity to make sure that any custom indexes/search controllers in your project are correctly filtering results based on permissions and search visibility, which you can now achieve via a unified method (see `SilverStripe\FullTextSearch\Search\ServicesSearchableService::isSearchable()`.)

The [silverstripe/fulltextsearch module readme provides additional information](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-fulltextsearch).


## Regressions

 - [File section, icons broken until page is refreshed](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/issues/1064)


<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->

<!--- Changes above this line will be automatically regenerated -->
