# 5.0.0

## Introduction

This version introduces many breaking changes, which in most projects can be managed through a combination
of automatic upgrade processes as well as manual code review. This document reviews these changes and will
guide developers in preparing existing 4.x code for compatibility with 5.0.

## Overview {#overview}

* Minimum version dependencies have increased; PHP 7.1 or higher is required.
* Core classes have begun implementing PHP 7 scalar type hinting and return type hints.

## API Changes {#api-changes}

* `<% loop %>` and `<% with %>` now only ever result in one new scope level. For example
  `<% loop $Pages.Limit(5) %>{$Up.Up.Title}<% end_loop %>` must be rewritten to use just one `$Up` statement to reach
  the parent scope.

### General {#overview-general}

* Minimum PHP version raised to 7.1
* Once PHP versions become [unsupported by the PHP Project](http://php.net/supported-versions.php),
  we drop support for those versions in the [next minor release](/contributing/release-process) 
  This means PHP 7.1 support will become dropped in Dec 2019.
* Updated PHPUnit from 5.7 to 7.0 (upgrade notes unavailable - @todo).
  Any PHPUnit classes that are referenced directly will need to be updated to support the new PHPUnit
  namespaces. Overloaded PHP methods that originate in PHPUnit classes may need to be updated to support
  new PHP 7 method signatures.
  You may also need to update your phpunit.xml.dist file to implement the PHPUnit 7.0 schema. See the
  [SilverStripe installer](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-installer) for a base template you
  can copy into your project.
  Run `composer require --dev phpunit/phpunit ^7@dev` on existing projects to pull in the new dependency.
* Some of the core SilverStripe methods have begun implementing PHP 7 scalar type hinting and return type
  hints. Wherever your project code overloads methods with new signatures you will need to update them to
  match.

### Versioning {#overview-versioning}

* Removed `Versioned::allVersions()` and `SilverStripe/Versioned/Versioned_Version` class. Use
  `Versioned::Versions()` instead.
* `Versioned::Versions()` no longer has any arguments. You can call filter / sort / limit on
  the returned DataList instead.
* Removed `Versioned::publish()` (previously deprecated in 4.0 and marked for removal in 5.0)

### ORM

* `Query::first()` and `Query::current()` removed. Use `Query::record()` instead.
* `Query::seek()` removed. To re-set the position, re-execute `Query::getIterator()` instead.
* `Query::next()` and other Iterator methods removed. Call `Query::getIterator()` to get an iterator instead.

<!--- Changes below this line will be automatically regenerated -->
