title: File storage
summary: Describes the persistence layer of files

# File storage

This section describes how the asset store abstraction layer stores the physical files underlying the ORM,
and explains some of the considerations. 

## Component Overview

The assets module is composed of these major storage classes:

* [api:SilverStripe\Assets\File]: This is the main DataObject that user code interacts with when working with files.
 This class has the following subclasses:
  - [api:SilverStripe\Assets\Folder]: Logical folder which holds a set of files. These can be nested.
  - [api:SilverStripe\Assets\Image]: Specialisation of File representing an image which can be resized.
  Note that this does not include non-resizable image files.
* [api:SilverStripe\Assets\Storage\DBFile]: This is the DB field used by the File dataobject internally for
  storing references to physical files in the asset backend.
* [api:SilverStripe\Assets\Flysystem\FlysystemAssetStore]: The default backend, provided by
  [Flysystem](https://flysystem.thephpleague.com/), which SilverStripe uses as an asset persistence layer.
* [api:SilverStripe\Assets\InterventionBackend]: Default image resizing mechanism, provided by
  [intervention image](http://image.intervention.io/).

These interfaces are also provided to abstract certain behaviour:

* [api:SilverStripe\Assets\Storage\AssetContainer]: Abstract interface for a file reference. Implemented by both
  File and DBFile. Declare API for reading to and writing an single file.
* [api:SilverStripe\Assets\Storage\AssetStore]: Abstract interface for the backend store for the asset system.
  Implemented by FlysystemAssetStore. Declares API for reading and writing assets from and to the store.

## Storage via database columns

Asset storage is provided out of the box via a [Flysystem](http://flysystem.thephpleague.com/) backed store.
However, any class that implements the `AssetStore` interface could be substituted to provide storage backends
via other mechanisms.

Internally, files are stored as [DBFile](api:SilverStripe\Assets\Storage\DBFile) records on the rows of parent objects.
These records are composite fields which contain sufficient information useful to the configured asset backend in order
to store, manage, and  publish files. By default this composite field behind this field stores the following details:


| Field name     | Description |
| ----------     | -----------   
| `Hash`         | The sha1 of the file content, useful for versioning (if supported by the backend) |
| `Filename`     | The internal identifier for this file, which may contain a directory path (not including assets). Multiple versions of the same file will have the same filename. |
| `Variant`      | The variant for this file. If a file has multiple derived versions (such as resized files or reformatted documents) then you can point to one of the variants here. |


Note that the `Hash` and `Filename` always point to the original file, if a `Variant` is specified. It is up to the
storage backend to determine how variants are managed.

Note that the storage backend used will not be automatically synchronised with the database. Only files which
are loaded into the backend through the asset API will be available for use within a site.

## Public file paths

Public files are published either directly through the "Assets" CMS UI,
or indirectly as part of a [versioned ownership structure](/developer_guides/model/versioning).
They are stored as you'd expect on the filesystem: In their folder, by their file name.

```
assets/
    my-public-folder/
        my-public-file.jpg
```

The URL for this file will match the physical location on disk:
`http://www.example.com/assets/my-public-folder/my-public-file.jpg`.

## Variant file paths (e.g. resized images)

Each file can have variants, most commonly resized versions of an image.
These can be generated by resizing an image in the CMS rich text editor,
through template logic, or programmatically with PHP.
They are stored in the same folder alongside the original file,
but contain a special variant suffix.

```
assets/
    my-public-folder/
        my-public-file.jpg
        my-public-file__FitWzYwLDYwXQ.jpg
```

The URL for this file will match the physical location on disk:
`http://www.example.com/assets/my-public-folder/my-public-file__FitWzYwLDYwXQ.jpg`.

Note: Before 4.4.0, public files were stored with a content hash by default
(see [Protected file paths](#protected-file-paths)).

## Protected file paths {#protected-file-paths}

Uploaded files are protected by default, which puts them in a "draft" mode
that requires permissions to view them. Protected files can also be published
but access restricted. In either case, they're stored in a special `assets/.protected` folder.
In this case, they're stored in a folder matching the truncated hash of the file's content.

```
assets/
    my-public-folder/
        my-public-file.jpg
        my-public-file__FitWzYwLDYwXQ.jpg
    .protected/
        my-protected-folder/
            b63923d8d4/
                my-protected-file.jpg
                my-protected-file__FitWzYwLDYwXQ.jpg
```

This corresponds to a file with the following properties:

- Filename: my-protected-folder/my-protected-file-hash/my-protected-file.jpg
- Hash: b63923d8d4089c9da16fbcbcdfef3e1b24806334 (trimmed to first 10 chars)
- Variant: FitWzYwLDYwXQ (corresponds to `Fit[60,60]`)

The URL for this file will not match the physical location on disk.
It leaves out the `.protected/` folder, and leaves that to SilverStripe's integrated routing:
`http://www.example.com/assets/my-protected-folder/b63923d8d4/my-protected-file.jpg`.

For more information on how protected files are stored see the [file security](/developer_guides/files/file_security)
section.

## Versioned file paths

Older versions of file contents are kept in the `.protected` folder,
following the same rules as [protected file paths](#protected-file-paths).

```
assets/
    my-file.jpg <- current published file
    .protected/
        dec83f348d/ <- old content hash of replaced file version
            my-file.jpg
        b63923d8d4/ <- old content hash of replaced file version
            my-file.jpg
```

## Archived file paths

Archived files (deleted from both draft and live stages) are kept as well,
following the same rules as [protected file paths](#protected-file-paths),
if you have opted into keeping them via:

```yml
SilverStripe\Assets\Flysystem\FlysystemAssetStore:
  keep_archived_assets: true
``` 

## Loading content into `DBFile`

A file can be written to the backend from a file which exists on the local filesystem (but not necessarily
within the assets folder).

For example, to load a temporary file into a DataObject you could use the below:

```php
use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;

class Banner extends DataObject 
{
    private static $db = [
        'Image' => 'DBFile'
    ];
}

// Image could be assigned in other parts of the code using the below
$banner = new Banner();
$banner->Image->setFromLocalFile($tempfile['path'], 'my-folder/my-file.jpg');
```
